
# Classes

> Classes are the main building blocks of any object-oriented programming language. A class enables you to create your own type by grouping together methods and variable of other types.  
> > Compared to Java, you can define multiple classes within the same source file.

The class
keyword can be preceded by the access level. If it is not specified, it will default to public; this
means anyone can create objects of this class. The name of the class follows the keyword and the
curly braces contain the class body where the behavior and data are defined: fields, properties,
and methods

```
private class Customer (val id: Int, var email: String = "example@gmail.com") {
    var category: String = ""

    fun checkIn() {
        /*...*/ 
    }
 }
```

## 1. Nested and Inner Classes

### Nested Classes:

Definition: A nested class is a class that is defined within another class.

Scope: It does not have access to the members (properties and methods) of the outer class.

Instance Creation: Instances of a nested class can be created without an instance of the outer class.

```
class Team(val name: String) {
    // Nested class
    class Player(val playerName: String) {
        // Player class members
    }
}
```

```
val teamInstance = Team("Kotlin Team")
val playerInstance = Team.Player("Alice")
```

### Inner Classes:

Definition: An inner class is a class that is defined within another class and marked with the `inner` keyword.

Scope: It has access to the members of the outer class, allowing it to reference the outer class's properties and methods.

Instance Creation: Instances of an inner class can only be created within an instance of the outer class.

```
class School(val name: String) {
    // Outer class property
    val schoolCode = "S123"

    // Inner class marked with 'inner' keyword
    inner class Student(val studentName: String) {
        // Inner class members can access outer class members
        fun displayStudentInfo() {
            println("Student: $studentName, School Code: $schoolCode")
        }
    }
}

// Creating instances of the outer and inner classes
val schoolInstance = School("Kotlin High School")
val studentInstance = schoolInstance.Student("Bob")

// Accessing outer class property from inner class
studentInstance.displayStudentInfo()

```

---
### Nested classes are independent of the instances of the outer class, while inner classes are tied to a specific instance of the outer class and can access its members. 
---
## 2. Enum Classs

> Enumeration is a specific type of class; a variable of a given enum type is limited to a set of
predefined constants: the ones that have been defined by the type. To define an enumeration, you
could use the `enum class` keywords

```
enum class CreditCard {
    VISA,
    MASTER,
    ELO,
    AMEX
}
```
 **Each enum constant is an object. Enum constants are separated by commas.**


Similar to Java, Kotlin provides you with helper methods to work with enumeration classes. 

```
val creditCard: CreditCard = CreditCard.valueOf("VISA")
    for (card in CreditCard.values()) {
        println(card)
    }
```


Enumeration, like all classes, can take a constructor parameter:

```
enum class CreditCard(var label: String, var discount: Int) {
    VISA("Visa", 3),
    MASTER("Mastercard", 2),
    ELO("Elo", 2),
    AMEX("AmericanExpress",1)
}

fun main() {
    for (card in CreditCard.values()) {
        println("${card.label} card gives a ${card.discount}% discount!")
    }

}
```

## 3. Data class

> Data classes are intended for types that are meant to be data containers and nothing more: it comes automatically with additional member functions that allow you to print an
instance to readable output, compare instances, copy instances, and more.

```
data class Customer(
    val id: Int, 
    val name: String, 
    var card: CreditCard = CreditCard.VISA)
```

`data class` automatically generates common methods such as `toString()`, `equals()`, `hashCode()` and `copy()` based on the properties declared in the primary constructor. This reduces boilerplate code and makes the class more concise.

```
fun main() {
    val customerA = Customer(1,"Alice")
    val customerB = customerA.copy(id=2)
    val customerC = Customer(3,"Anna")

    println("Is the same client? ${customerA == customerB}") // false ( == compares the value of properties)

    println("Hashcode of client1: ${customerA.hashCode()}")

    println(customerB) 
    // output: Customer(id=2, name=Alice, card=VISA)

}
```
* The `equals()` method generated for data classes performs structural equality, comparing each property of the instances. This ensures that two instances are considered equal if all their properties are equal, simplifying comparison logic.
* The `copy()` method generated for data classes facilitates the creation of modified copies with specific properties changed. This is useful for creating variations of an object without modifying the original.

## IMPORTANT: The compiler only uses the properties defined inside the primary constructor for the automatically generated functions. 

### Destructuring declarations

A destructuring declaration creates multiple variables at once.It allows you to break down complex data structures, such as objects or collections, into individual variables. This feature provides a concise and readable way to extract multiple values from a single source.

Examples: 
```
val (id_A,name_A,card_A) = customerA 
// the variables must be in the same order as the primary constructor
```

```
val pair = Pair("Kotlin", 2022)
val (language, year) = pair
```
```
val mapFruits = mapOf<String,String>(
    "Strawberry" to "Red",
    "Banana" to "Yellow",
    "Watermellon" to "Green")

for ((fruit, color) in mapFruits) {
        println("$fruit is $color")
}
```

A destructuring declaration is compiled down to the following code:

```
val id_C = customerC.component1()
val name_C = customerC.component2()
val card_C = customerC.component3()
```

In summary, `componentN()` functions are the special functions generated for data classes that allow us to destructure instances of those classes. These functions are automatically generated for data class properties, where N corresponds to the order of the property in the primary constructor.