
# Inheritance

> Inheritance is fundamental to object-oriented programming. It allows us to create new classes that
reuse, extend, and/or modify the behavior of the preexisting ones. A derived class will implicitly get all the parent classes fields, properties, and methods.
>>  The importance of inheritance lies in the ability to reuse code that has already been written and therefore avoid the scenario where we would have to
reimplement the behavior exposed by the parent class. A derived class can add fields, properties,
or new methods, thus extending the functionality available through the parent. We would say that
class B, the derived one, specializes class A, the parent. 

By default, Kotlin classes are final – they can't be inherited. To make a class inheritable, mark it with the `open` keyword:

```
open class Base // Class is open for inheritance
```

To declare an explicit supertype, place the type after a colon in the class header:

```
open class Base(p: Int) {}

class Derived(p: Int) : Base(p) {}
```

Here's a simple example:

```
open class Person(var name: String, var address: String) {
    open var libraryAccess = false

    open fun description() = "My name is $name and my  address is $address. Has library acess: $libraryAccess"

}

class Professor(name: String, address: String) : Person(name, address) {
    // Overriding properties
    override var libraryAccess: Boolean = true

}

class Student(var id: Int, name: String, address: String) : Person(name, address) {
    // Overriding methods
    override fun description() = super.description() + "\n Student Id: $id"
}
```

Notice that:
* A member marked `override` is itself open, so it may be overridden in subclasses. The overriding mechanism works on properties in the same way that it does on methods. Properties declared on a superclass that are then redeclared on a derived
class must be prefaced with override, and they must have a compatible type.

* Code in a derived class can call its superclass functions and property accessor implementations using the `super` keyword.

# Visibility Modifiers