
# Singleton Object

> Named objects and companion objects are generated on a JVM as **singleton instances** of a particular class. For example, if you define an object called Foo, then the Kotlin compiler will
create a class called Foo. Foo will contain a static field called INSTANCE, which will contain the
only instance of Foo.
>> the `object` keyword is used to create this special type known as a "singleton object", wich represents a single, unique instance of a class, and this instance is created when the program starts and persists throughout its execution. 

```
object Database {
    val dbName = "MyDatabase"
    var connectionCount = 0

    fun connect() {
        println("Connecting to $dbName...")
        connectionCount++
    }
}

```

* You can access the members of a singleton directly by the name of the object, without the need to create instances like `Database.dbName` or `Database.connect()`.
* In Kotlin, singleton objects are often used as an alternative to classes with static methods in other programming languages.
  

## Examples

* Singletons: When you need to ensure that there is only one instance of a class throughout the program. This is useful in scenarios such as resource managers, database connections, caches, and more.
* Utility operations: For utility functions and operations that do not depend on instance state and do not require object creation, object can be used to create a container for these operations.

    ```
    object Calculator {
        fun add(a: Int, b: Int): Int {
            return a + b
        }

        fun multiply(a: Int, b: Int): Int {
            return a * b
        }
    }

    ```

* Container for Ccnstants: If you need to group related constants, object can be used to create a container for these constants.

    ```
    object Constants {
        const val MAX_NAME_LENGTH = 10
        const val MAX_AGE = 120
        const val IMAGE_EXTENSION = ".jpg"
    }
    ```