
# Interfaces

> An interface is nothing more than a contract; it contains definitions for a set of related functionalities. The implementer of the interface has to adhere to the interface the contract and implement the required methods.
>> Interfaces in Kotlin can contain declarations of abstract methods, as well as method implementations. What makes them different from abstract classes is that interfaces cannot store state (properties with values). They can have properties, but these need to be abstract or provide accessor implementations.

```
interface Writable {
    val color: String

    fun write(message: String) {}
}

class Pen(override val color: String) : Writable {
    override fun write(message: String) {
        println("Using a $color pen: '$message'")
    }
}

class Notebook(override val color: String) : Writable {
    override fun write(message: String) {
        println("In the $color notebook: $message")
    }
}
```

## Interface or abstract class

There is always a debate over using either an interface or an abstract class. Here are a few rules to follow when deciding which way to go:

* Is-a versus Can-Do: Any type can inherit from one parent class only and multiple interfaces.  Interfaces imply a Can-Do relationship. If the Can-do functionality is
applicable to different object types, go with an interface implementation. 
* Promote code reuse:  It is easier to inherit a class rather than an interface, where you have to provide an implementation for all the methods defined. A parent class can provide a lot of common functionality; thus, the derived class has to only redefine or implement a small subset of the methods defined.
* Versioning: If you work with an interface and you add a new member to it, you force all the
derived classes to change their code by adding the new implementation. The same is not applicable for an abstract class. You can add
your new method and make use of it, and the user's source code doesn't even need to be
recompiled.