
# Type Hierarchy

## Any

> Em Kotlin, `Any` é a raiz da hierarquia de tipos de objetos. `Any` é um supertipo para todos os tipos não nulos na linguagem, o que significa que qualquer objeto em Kotlin pode ser tratado como um tipo `Any`. Essa hierarquia é semelhante ao conceito de `Object` em Java.

Here is the definition of `Any`:

```
public open class Any {
    public open operator fun equals(other: Any?): Boolean

    public open fun hashCode(): Int

    public open fun toString(): String
}
```

Note that it includes default methods `equals`, `hashCode`, and `toString`. These methods are often overridden in specific classes to provide custom equality semantics.

When defining functions or generic classes in Kotlin, you can use Any as a generic parameter to indicate that the function or class can handle any type of object.

## Unit

> The `Unit` type is the equivalent of void in Java. Having a Unit type is common in a functional programming language, and the distinction between void and Unit is subtle. Void is not a type, but a special edge case that is used to indicate to the compiler that a function returns no value. Unit is a proper type, with a singleton instance, also referred to as Unit or (). When a function is defined as a returning Unit, then it will return the singleton unit instance.

```
public object Unit {
    override fun toString() = "kotlin.Unit"
}
```

## Nothing

> Where Kotlin differs from Java most notably is the addition of a bottom type, `Nothing`, which is a type that has no instances. Similar to how Any is a superclass of all types, Nothing is the subclass of all types.

Firstly, Nothing can be used to inform the compiler that a function never completes normally; for example, it might loop forever, or always throw an exception. Another example is empty immutable collections.

```
public class Nothing private constructor()
```

An example usage ofNothing is in the error function which is part of the Kotlin standard library:

```
public inline fun error(message: Any): Nothing = throw IllegalStateException(message.toString())
```