
# Null Safety

> In Kotlin, it's possible to have a null value. To help prevent issues with null values in your programs, Kotlin has null safety in place. Null safety detects potential
problems with null values at compile time, rather than at run time.

Null safety is a combination of features that allow you to:
1. Explicitly declare when null values are allowed in your program.
2. Check for null values.
3. Use safe calls to properties or functions that may contain null values.
4. Declare actions to take if null values are detected.

## Nullable types

By default, null values aren't accepted. Kotlin requires that a variable that can assigned to null be declared with a `?`:
```
var str: String? = null
```
If this is not done, the code will not compile. 

You can check for the presence of null values within conditional expressions:

```
var produto: String? = null
if (produto != null) {
    println(produto.length)
}
```
```
fun description(string: String?) : String {
    if (!string.isNullOrEmpty()) {
        return "$string length = ${string.length}"
    } else {
        return "Empty or null"
    }
}
```

## Safe calls

To safely access properties of an object that might contain a null value, use the safe call operator `?.`. The safe call operator returns null if the object's property is
null. This is useful if you want to avoid the presence of null values triggering errors in your code.

```
var length: Int = if (produto != null) produto.length else 0

// Use safe calls instead:

var lengthOrNull: Int? = produto?.length
```

# Elvis operator

You can provide a default value to return if a null value is detected by using the Elvis operator `?:`.
Write on the left-hand side of the Elvis operator what should be checked for a null value. Write on the right-hand side of the Elvis operator what should be returned if
a null value is detected.

```
var lengthOrNull: Int = produto?.length ?: 0
```