
# Collections

> Collection types (sometimes called data structures) let you store multiple values, typically of the same data type, in an organized way. A collection might be an ordered list, a grouping of unique values, or a mapping of values of one data type to values of another. The ability to effectively use collections enables you to implement common features of Android apps, such as scrolling lists, as well as solve a variety of real-life programming problems that involve arbitrary amounts of data.

Kotlin distinguishes between mutable and immutable collections. A mutable
collection can be updated in place by adding, removing or replacing an element, and it will be
reflected in its state. On the other side, an immutable collection, while it provides the same
operations-addition, removal, or replacement-via the operator functions will end up producing a
brand-new collection, leaving the initial one untouched.


## Lists

Lists are ordered collections. With a list, you can insert an element at a very specific location, as
well as retrieve elements by the position in the collection.

To create a read-only list use the `listOf()` function and to create a mutable list, use the `mutableListOf()` function.
When creating lists, Kotlin can infer the type of items stored. To declare the type explicitly, add the type within angled brackets `<>` after the list declaration:

```
    var readOnly = listOf(1,true, 4.5, "Luana")

    var mutableList = mutableListOf<Int>(1,2,3,4,5)
    // or
    var fruitsList: MutableList<String> = mutableListOf("Strawberry","Watermelon","Banana")
```
 
 Commom methods: 

 ```
 // add new value
fruitsList.add("Orange")

// remove element
fruitsList.removeAt(0)
fruitsList.remove("Banana")

// filter
var fruitWithP = fruitsList.filter { it.startsWith("P") }
 ```

 ## Sets

 Whereas lists are ordered and allow duplicate items, sets are unordered and only store unique items. The same reasoning applies for a null reference - you can't have more than one null item stored in your set.

 > As sets are unordered, you can't access an item at a particular index.

```
val users = mutableSetOf(
        User("Livia",false),
        User("Anna", true),
        User("Carla",false)
    )
```

 ## Maps

> A map collection allows you to associated an object (key) to another object (value). A map dictates that your collection can't contain duplicate keys, and each key is mapped to at most one value. The interesting part about a map is that its interface provides three
collection views: the set of keys, the collection of all the values, and the set of key-value
mappings.

```
val product = mutableMapOf(
        "Android" to "Google",
        "Office" to "Microsoft",
        "iOS" to "Apple",
        "Windows" to "Microsoft")
```
 
 Common methods:

 1. Acessing elements:
   ```
   val company = product["Android"]

   val company2 = product.getOrElse("Linux") { 
        println("There is no such key.")
    }
   ```
 2. Iterating Over a Map:
    ```
    for (k in product.keys) { // code}

    for (k in product.values) { // code}

    for ((key,value) in product) { // code}
    ```
 3. Modifying a Map:
    ```
    product["Android"] = "Empresa X"
    product.remove("Windows")
    product.clear()
    ```

 4. Map Filtering:
   ```
   val microsoftProducts = product.filter { it.value.uppercase() == "MICROSOFT" }
   ```