

# Functions

> The idea behind functions is very simple: split up a large program into smaller chunks that can be
reasoned more easily and allow the reuse of the code to avoid repetition. This second point is
known as the DRY principle: **Don't Repeat Yourself**. The more the number of times you write
the same code, the more the chances you create of a bug creeping in.

You can define a function in Kotlin using the `fun` keyword, followed by the function name, parameters, return type, and a block of code. 

## Default values

You can define default values for your function parameters. Any parameter with a default value can be omitted when calling your function.

The function can define one or more of its parameters to have default values, which are
used if the arguments are not specified. This allows a single function to be defined for several use
cases, thereby avoiding the need for multiple overloaded variants.

```
fun happyNewYear (name:String, year: Int = 2024): String {
    return "Happy $year, $name!"
}

happyNewYear("Livia")
```

## Named Parameters

When calling your function, you don't have to include parameter names. However, Named parameters can be used to pass arguments to a function by explicitly mentioning the parameter names, regardless of the order in which they are defined in the function signature. 

This has the benefit that for functions with many parameters, explicit naming makes the intent of
each argument clear. This makes the call site more readable.

```
happyNewYear(name = "Luana", year = 2030)
```

## Single expression functions

Usually, a function must declare its return type; an exception exists only for functions that consist
of a single expression. These are often referred to as one line or single line functions.

Such functions can use a shortened syntax that omits the braces and uses the `=` symbol before the
expression rather than the `return` keyword:

```
fun helloWorld() = println("Hello World!")

fun square(k: Int): Int = k * k
```

Notice that the function `square` does not need to declare the return value of Int. This is inferred by the
compiler. However, you can
always include the return value if you think it makes things clearer